how do you make it stick your biggest
enemy is you
[Music]
hey everybody today's episode is brought
to you by impact theory university's own
business decision making workshop if
you're a business owner looking to scale
your company
i can help i've created a four week
intensive workshop that's going to give
you the decision making strategies
that you need to scale your company it's
the exact things that i use to take
quest to a billion dollar exit
and it's exactly what i'm using today on
impact theory that's allowed us to grow
by 400 percent in just the last two
years
this sounds like something that would be
beneficial to you and your business
i want you to go right now to decision
dot
impact theory dot com to apply once
again that's
decision.impacttheory.com you can apply
today all right i'll see you on the
inside
probably the first two years of being in
business the only contributions i would
make to a conference call were to say
goodbye i am not a born entrepreneur
how do you take your 10-year plan and
make it happen in six months don't
expect a spark of passion doesn't happen
like that
only in the process of gaining mastery
will you find passion you're standing in
a room with a thousand doors
your job is to close 999 of them and
walk through one
make a decision even if it's
terrible mistakes are the most
information-rich data stream there is
once you understand
that in your life you're
either going to be chasing money or
you're going to be chasing fulfillment
when you chase fulfillment you may also
build a massive company
people do not judge you by their by your
intentions they judge you by your
results
the only thing that you have is today so
if you're worried about today and you
take care of today
10 years from now is going to take care
of itself
if disney can create the most magical
place on earth could we create the most
empowering place on earth
so when someone comes to you and says oh
my god look what you've built it's so
inspiring
but i don't know what my purpose is i
don't know what makes me
passionate i'm not sure which direction
to take like what is the council i'm
sure you feel this question all the time
like what is daily your counsel to that
individual so first and foremost
go play go discover like wander around
go to a different country like encounter
enough stuff that you see what actually
gives you that spark of interest
don't expect a spark of passion doesn't
happen like that you're going to be
interested by something
and that's something will be maybe a
little more interesting than the next
thing
that thing now go down the process of
really engaging with it
like go full in so if you were traveling
around india and you went
and um taught a you know a week-long
math class
and you were like i've never been this
fulfilled in my life moved to india
and teach in the slums for a year and
even that or how about
just when you go back home maybe you
know start tutoring kit like
you don't have to revolutionize your
life overnight but if you start
bringing greater expression to that
impulse it will lead you in a trajectory
that you can't
foresee in that moment super powerful
answer
so i'm a thousand percent with that
engaging with it
whatever face that takes but really
spending time with it really doing it
then if it turns into a full-blown
fascination where you're like i really
dig this
then we're going to go down the process
of gaining mastery only in the process
of gaining mastery will you find passion
so to me passion comes out of it's kind
of like love i don't believe that love
it needs a different word
unrequited love is a very different
neurological state than
reciprocal love so if you have
unrequited love to me that's something
you
really like i love singing but i'm
at it
so i have unrequited love i love singing
but singing does not love me back
now i could go down the process of
gaining mastery and then i may find that
i have a real passion for it
because part of it's going to become oh
i'm gaining this skill and this skill of
singing allows me to have an emotional
impact not only on myself but on other
people
i can make them feel good i can change
their mood i can tell a story whatever
it is that you want to do with the music
but when you're able to do
that and you're truly good at it and it
has the outcome that you desire
then it can become a passion but to get
a passion you've got to fight through
just ridiculous
amounts of boredom fatigue everything to
truly become good enough at it
that it's a skill that has utility i
think people are also terrified they're
going to miss out on something and it's
the only thing you have is today so if
you're worried about today and you take
care of today
10 years from now is going to take care
of itself what do you love doing
right now what do you want to get great
at
right now you're so right because you're
not going to know
the alternative there's no weird video
game where you pick a path
but then you get to rewind it and watch
what would have happened like if you go
start go to move to the company's
headquarters in afghanistan
or go to work to a different friend in
cincinnati or move to the big city of
new york
royce you're not gonna know how it would
have worked out
and if it sucks switch it up like that's
the thing that drives me nuts
here's how i think entrepreneurs need to
think of themselves you're standing in a
room with a thousand doors
your job is to close 999 of them and
walk through one
people are so paralyzed by all the
opportunity cost of
actually having to shut a door that they
never make a decision
make a decision even if it's
terrible dude mistakes are the most
information-rich data stream there is
standing still
that's right is the only problem
so i want to get people on obsessive
thinking so one of the things people
always ask me okay what's your
secret to your success i normally say
reading but i'll say that there's
actually something else i do that people
it's hard to articulate but here it goes
there's a great question that peter
thiel asks
how do you take your 10-year plan and
make it happen in six months so
if you obsessively think about how do i
accelerate this like how do i what's
that quantum leap forward
and for him to be thinking about that
like the collapsing down to very little
expense
so that he can get into a place that's
actually winning when would that build
like a package up that he can go pitch
to people
and say like look i only want whatever i
want to flip more scooters whatever so
he's getting in at you know a thousand
or ten thousand
instead of you know four hundred
thousand then he can build that momentum
and you just keep going upstream
upstream upstream lack of patience
yeah what's interesting you and i
disagree on the use of the word patience
like
so violently so my thing is
patience literally
and but the thing is i always tell
people i know what gary means and gary
means play
macro patience micro speed a thousand
percent the problem is when people
hear patients they get into passive
medicine yes so i'm psychotic
about that you use the word passive
though
yeah exactly you can't let people get
into a passive situation the words
patience not passive
yeah but what i'm saying is when people
hear that word out of anyone's mouth
i understand they don't live in the life
of everybody
semantically articulating the
manipulation of words to their
non-meeting
it's interesting so here's how i love
when people like i love like like the
amount of judgment that is being thrown
at me right now in circles
around people manipulating the words
that i'm
like it's absurd like patience is not
passive
so my thing is how do people react to it
i couldn't agree more but
the reality is is if we are now in a
place
where we can't allow the words to
actually mean what they mean
we have to challenge that conversation
as well
because now you're getting into how
people filter everything and now we're
talking about
the most important p which is
perspective if their filter is taking it
then you're that's what gets so
interesting about having to do this
one-on-one
versus through content content is
vulnerable
in its macro it's super interesting
very interesting and i that on this
particular thing like i'll say forget
the words because you and i are saying
the same thing
so the last thing i want to do is argue
that when we get to the point
thousand percent and i'm with you my
thing is how do you get people to
realize that
momentum is the thing that i think
matters so if you have you ever been in
like an above ground swimming pool
you can start walking in a circle and it
creates the the vortex and then you
could pick your feet up and
the whole thing i was talking to you
about that i got to walk you through of
like what you need to do for your studio
to like win the world
literally internally for a few minutes
was called momentum marketing
nice you can't we can't be believing
more yeah whenever you're
doing something ask who's living my
idealized life
i have one belief and that is
a the 25 point belief system that's it
like that encompasses
my whole ethos so i want to tell stories
that empower people
period simple as so my thing is if
disney
can create the most magical place on
earth could we create the most
empowering place on earth it's not a
mistake that walt disney at one point
was considered the most famous man in
the world
and the u.s government literally would
send him on goodwill missions to other
countries
so there's just something about when you
have an ethos that people can believe in
when there's a face to the company and
it's not just a corporation
there's someone to believe in there's
someone to get value from even if you're
not consuming their product like there's
just people gravitate towards that now
in the era of social media our whole
thing was now i don't want to be tied
down by
one product it's like we want to do this
massive
multiple companies and you know what i
mean like you just start going like
disney
they could be doing better like let's
beat them at their own game so you
really
start just thinking at an absurdly grand
level
and that's the fun of it right like
somebody has to like somebody one day
out there looked at an orange grove and
said this could be disneyland
right but it took somebody to look in an
orange grove and say i don't see an
orange grove i see
just a future that nobody can imagine
and that's vision right vision is
hitting a target that other people
doesn't even know exist
before it's called social media all that
stuff i you know we're doing it and
we're doing it better than
anybody else
i was about community when no one was
talking about that i was about
authenticity and transparency before
those became buzzwords like just going
ham because
that's where i was right i'm not chasing
money anymore i'm doing
something i care about i'm saving my mom
and my sister like this is real for me
so because of that it was coming from
somewhere so real
we were doing social before anybody else
creating all of our own content
everything and it was so like for real i
wanted to touch people's lives
and so we blew up and i felt like i'm
king like i get it i get something
nobody else gets that the number one
most powerful marketing vehicle is being
a good person
like this is crazy like we're
living in this weird time where just
because i
actually give a and if i did
something like my product didn't work
for you what a i'll
not only will i take it back refund you
i'll give you more for free like
whatever right
and it's just right time then my team
starts going
tom you've got to step out front dude
you've got to step out front we want to
start filming you and i was like
absolutely not that is so weird
like i want to be in the background
definitely not my personality to want to
step out front
and then you started popping off yeah
and they kept rubbing you in my face
and they're like look at this
look what he's doing dude
like he's popping off people are really
listened to his message and i was
listening
this guy's real every word out
of his mouth is real and if
people take his advice and that's the
thing i used to laugh about i was like
guaranteed most people are not actually
taking his advice but i'm gonna start
taking his advice because it's real and
i can see
and i saw that you saw from a personal
branding perspective
what i missed and so this was probably
about four years ago i was like all
right this dude figured it out
and now i'm in second place i do not
like second place
so i need to start hustling and i need
to get a show and i need to do the
and so we would literally just like how
do we
bring all this stuff that i've been
doing behind the scenes and how do we
translate it in front of the camera
from 2010 to 2013 you become one of the
fastest growing
companies in north america that's crazy
right crazy
i mean you must have had to staff up
like crazy dude this is i wish people
could see this now because
people think of growth like that as
being like a digital product or
something where it's like uh what did
um um instagram got to a billion dollar
evaluation with like eight employees or
something
that is not how things went for us so we
were a manufacturing business
so we had to buy equipment which has
like six eight 12 month lead times
we had so imagine you're growing you're
doubling month over month and you've got
to project out 12 months
think about how terrifying that is from
a capital perspective
because you're only making the money
you're making today but you've got to
spend the money
that you're going to need to be spending
for 12 months from now it's absolutely
bananas did you do a crazy capital raise
no we did literally we had one mezzanine
debt round
very small but it gave us enough that we
were able to get to the point where we
could borrow against accounts receivable
so we could get the line of credit
and again mad love to my partner who
managed all that stuff which is
absolutely a genius with building those
relationships
we had a belief make friends before you
need them so it was like
we were very proactive in that stuff but
even just getting the
um the square footage that we needed
to be manufacturing out of was pure
insanity and you would move into a space
and think that we're good here for the
next
three years and i'm not joking you'd be
out in six months
it was so crazy it was just happening so
fast and we had to staff up
the way that we had to staff up was
crazy it led to one of the most
beautiful periods of my life though
which was
we put we needed people so we put out on
the street that we would hire people
even if they had felony convictions
so we had people lined up around the
building just to get an interview
and that was extraordinary and
introduced me to just some beautiful
beautiful humans that completely shaped
my belief system
is why i launched impact theory because
when you see enough
lives where it's like these are
extraordinary people who will do nothing
with their life
because they don't believe they can elon
musk has an awesome quote
if what you're trying to do is important
enough even if the probable outcome is
failure you still need to do it
and so even if the probable outcome of
impact theory is failure and we don't
build you know the next 10 billion
dollar businesses and we don't create
the most potent library of um amazing
intellectual property you know think
star wars think the marvel universe
if we fail at that knowing what we're
trying to accomplish from
impacting culture perspective of telling
stories that will resonate with
um you know the the kids in the inner
cities right now because the next
einstein he's in the inner cities the
next elon musk he's in the inner cities
it's just
statistically they're there just waiting
to be reached
yeah but their frame of reference is so
destructive that they'll never do it
i am not a born entrepreneur yeah not in
the slightest
and i part of the reason that my
philosophies are what they are is
because i have
lived them so um when i talk about
the you know having a negative voice
it's because i have one and it is
aggressive
when i talk about anxieties because i
had anxiety when i talk about
being able to become an entrepreneur
it's because i had to
so i didn't have the instincts in fact
from an instinct perspective i didn't
have
any and i had to learn all of that now i
would say i do have good business
instincts
because i've trained them over time but
i certainly didn't have them in the
beginning
and in the beginning of my business
career the and this is real and i really
want people to feel what i feel when i
say this
the only contributions that i would make
for probably the first two years
of being in business the only
contributions i would make to a
conference call were to say
goodbye and i remember looking forward
to that because i was finally going to
get to say something
but because at least i knew enough to
keep my mouth shut when i didn't know
and i didn't understand i didn't want to
look stupid
so i would just be quiet i would listen
and learn and i'm very grateful to the
guys that gave me that opportunity they
would let me on the call
so i was often in rooms that i probably
would never have been allowed to be
in if i'd been in a traditional company
but because it was a startup they just
kept letting me listen in on phone calls
and stuff
so that ended up being really really
extraordinary for me but yeah i had to
learn to be an entrepreneur yeah i think
of entrepreneurs as athletes that don't
have
a limit to their body so it's like it's
one thing if you know you're only going
to be in the nfl
for four years because your body can't
take the tax right when you're going to
be in it forever it's like yeah if you
this play up you make a mistake
once
you're gonna get more power more science
than people realize
like you're learning from the nose it's
a data point you build on top of it you
get a lot of criticism for it i get a
lot of criticism for how many hours i
work
and i'm like are you not
listening like here's the punchline
i work that hard because i'm having fun
i hope you guys are enjoying this
episode which is brought to you by
impact theory university's business
decision making workshop
with nine full-length classes and weekly
live case studies with me the business
decision making workshop is a hands-on
approach to honing your abilities to
scale your business
i'm gonna be in there with you working
through your hardest problems so that
you'll be able to master
how to overcome any impediment by
getting the most foundational way to
think through
novel problems and that my friends is
exactly
what you need to do if you want to scale
your company and have the kind of crazy
success
you've always dreamed i promise it is
possible this is teachable this is
something that you can learn
it is a process that you can deploy
against your business
and be able to move confidently forward
just go
right now to decision.impacttheory.com
to apply do not delay my friends spots
are limited again
go to decision dot impact theory
and apply today i'll see you guys on the
inside
[Music]
i want to talk about your marriage a
little bit yeah
you have an amazing relationship with
your wife thank you
and i'm curious as to how you make it
work
as life partners and as business
partners
because this is something that's
personally you know interesting to me as
somebody who does the same
so part of it is that we're building the
same company
because it did not work like that when i
hated my job she wasn't working
at all she was a stay-at-home wife at
the time and i'm working i hate my job i
don't want to come home and talk about
it i'm working around the clock
around the clock and so
i just wasn't spending time with her so
it was a nightmare and so finally at six
and a half years she pulls me aside and
says this is now damaging our marriage
now going back to like your rules and
all of that it
my highest value is my marriage that's
the thing i value over
the wealth over ambition everything so
if ever i was doing something that's
damaging my marriage i'm gonna correct
course
and so that was part of why i went in
and quit and i started taking time off
um so you got married young right i did
i did yeah i got married at 26. um
and so realizing that okay i'm now
damaging the marriage
and that the marriage is my highest
priority
then it's very clear i need to change
something so um
one that i have that in the right order
in my life
so that um when my wife says hey you
need to make a change i actually make it
and i'm not conflicted about it's very
easy
then my wife is very good
at giving me all the rope in the world
to be ambitious to pursue those things
that matter to me so much
but that she speaks up when it gets to
the point where she
is actually having a hard time now and
she is very
good at that on two levels one not
saying it too soon and two
actually protecting the marriage because
i'm bad at that so i get so focused on
what i'm doing and i'm
so in love with trying to solve that
puzzle and push it forward and all that
that i would push things too far for
sure and so it's an area where
i always tell people the one group that
i think there is um a tool
that is underutilized by this community
and that is anorexics
and i totally get it it is truly a
battle you're fighting for your life i'm
not making light of this at
all i just know about myself that that
the intoxication of the willpower to not
eat is something i feel very strongly
it's how i ended up losing
when i ended up losing 60 pounds and
getting really lean and the way that i
did it was essentially by starving
myself over extraordinarily
long periods of time and i felt so good
about myself
being able to do it i thought ah this is
how people get themselves in trouble
there's actually a positive side to this
and the sense of control and power and
all that is
very self-affirming and i thought okay
well if i know that about myself and i
know that i have
um anorexic tendencies then i'm just
going to tell my wife you're in complete
control of this
the second you tell me that i'm acting
in any way shape or form
in a way that's edging up towards
illness i will stop
not because i want to but because i
trust you and i'm empowering you with
something i don't think i can trust
myself on
and so she did and so when i got to that
point she said okay it's now you're
starting to worry me i think that we're
edging up on it and i changed instantly
not because i had reached my goals or
because i thought she was right
because in a moment of emotional
sobriety i empowered her
to know that i can't trust myself so
getting into that
space where you go i know this is an
area that i have a blind spot i'm not
the right person to make this decision
even though it's actually about myself
i'm going to empower somebody that i
love and trust and then i'm actually
going to follow through with that
and so that that's a tool that's served
our marriage
very well i know i can trust her to be
the guardian
of the relationship in terms of that are
we spending enough time on it
and then it's you know just constantly
looking for ways to better communicate
defining terms
there's a whole host of very specific
tools that we use
and then we both have growth mindsets so
we want to get better do you see a
benefit more in three
than two because no matter when there's
a two one unites or do you see benefit
in two over three
or solo who i don't i don't think
there's any way to answer that question
in the generic so let me walk through
the advantages and disadvantages of each
so as a solopreneur you will have the
most fun but i think your likelihood of
going out of business is the highest
because you don't have anybody checking
you so because it is
very hard i know because i try every
single day
it is very hard to get your employees to
challenge you especially
openly so that means you're not getting
all the good ideas and there's
no universe in which you have all the
good ideas i don't care how smart you
are
so when there's no one who's you're
equal it gets really hard to make sure
that you have total clarity and that
when you're acting
in a way that does not behoove the
company that somebody feels completely
comfortable saying
that's not working and when you don't
have that that's dangerous
but like having a vision and just being
able to execute and not have to convince
people is fun
so and if you're right then hey it's
great um i think that's probably also
where the it's lonely at the top phrase
comes from
now because i've never been alone at the
top for me like that
there's no ring of truth to that so i've
always had partners
now when i had three partners it was
really complicated
and trying to make sure that you're both
doing what's right for the company and
doing something that makes everybody
feel good
and then if you have different um like
parents that are of different religions
on those areas where you have a
collision of values
that's problematic because your
likelihood of convincing somebody to
change their mind is good
your likelihood of convincing to change
someone's values is virtually zero
like it is so deeply ingrained in who
they are they mistake it for the truth
of the world
right so it's like if i don't mean it in
a religious context but
when you start thinking about religious
values you get how entrenched people
become
so take two parents that have different
religions and they want to raise their
kid
to them the stakes are high the stakes
may be this child will go to hell
if they're not raised in the way that i
want you have two people thinking the
same thing
so you can definitely run into that in
business where you get the like
if we do what you're saying we're going
to lose the business and they're
thinking if we do what you say we're
going to lose the business right
now you have a collision of values
that's hard and so navigating your way
through that is is
very very difficult but when you have
three people
that hold each other in very high esteem
that have an insane degree of trust
that have been in the trenches for a
long time you've seen them at their most
vulnerable and they still show up but
you
show up for you like when you have that
kind of history
then it's really extraordinary but if
you don't have the history so finding a
partner that you're going to make an
equal partner right from the jump is
is tough now a partnership of two you
can get into a deadlock
and so at least when there's three
there's a third person to be like yo i'm
with this
person on this and so there's always
somebody to break the tie it's
there's never like well how about this
we were never in a situation where we
were in a three-way deadlock
so it was just far too easy one person
knew ah this was either close enough to
what i want anywhere whatever i'm just
gonna
go with that and vote so somebody was
always getting out voted you just knew
from time to time you're gonna get
outvoted
and this may be the key as long as
everybody actually wants their other two
partners to win it works
so if i always want my way to be right
and i don't give a about you or
your feelings
then it's going to be bad you and i are
going to have animosity but if i
actually want you to win
and so i'm like i think i'm right this
time but i know what it's like to always
have someone else's idea win and i never
get to see if my idea works so
even though i think i'm right i'm going
to disagree but i'm going to commit to
your idea
and that whole disagree but commit was a
big thing disagreement commit
i disagree but commit like if when we
walk out this door
no one will be able to tell which one of
us disagreed because we will be so
die hard about it so that was a real
thing i love that
so now my partnership is with my wife
and
when we created the company impact
theory impact just the two of you no one
else
nothing any plans for bringing anybody
in all of our um
employees have basically phantom shares
so they have ownership if we sold they'd
get a piece but they don't
vote or anything like that okay um so no
i would be
shocked if we did that i won't never say
never but i'd be surprised
and when we created it i told the lawyer
create the ultimate divorce nightmare
and my wife was like whoa whoa whoa you
take 51 i'll take 49. like
there's no need to do that the lawyers
are like listen to her
you take 51 she takes 49 it just makes
things clear tom
and i said no 50 50
because a my marriage is my highest
priority the business comes a distant
second
and two if i say to her
we're equals in every way but i don't
trust you quite enough
to give you equal percentage even though
she agrees
it sends a signal to her that there's
i'm hedging my bets
and the reality is i know what that does
to people psychologically so
and that's the exact reason at quest
that we were 33 and a third
each just there's you don't get any
benefit
by making it different and you get
massive dissent
when it's off so when you guys having a
conflict and you're trying to make a
decision was it
tom's the final decision-maker it was
two out of three yeah yeah so majority
yeah
oh very simple so it's easy so hey
twitter good let's go with it
i disagree but we got two out of three
and it was it was a lot more
interpersonal than that
that was sort of the truth of it but we
really did like there was such a deep
brotherhood yeah that that was a real
presence in all of this it was like
you're really talking through it you're
being sensitive to how the other person
feels
so you're being strategic there's no
question like you have to think of the
business
but we were always trying to walk that
line of like i don't want to hurt you i
don't want to like
piss you off like it's not about that
i'll push you if i have to no question
and if you get upset even though
that's not my intent that's going to
happen from time to time we all have to
be big boys and deal with it
and also you have to learn to let go and
recenter yourself and not be emotional
and so we weren't spiteful
so it's like it's really complicated and
that's why it wouldn't work for everyone
but we did it for a very long time
now in culture man is is literally
everything everything
my thing is my new like absolute
obsession is emotional safety
and it's one of those things people
don't talk about in business feels super
weird to say words like emotional safety
but i'm telling you right now like if
whatever you do whether you're starting
your own business or you're in a
business
look for somewhere where you can have
emotional safety because coming into
work and feeling good about it
is a big deal and i think there are two
metrics and this is really going to get
people in a weird place
metric number one laughter how often do
people laugh you have to pay
attention to that
and then number two and dude the first
time this really occurred to me
was i was in your office and i was
looking out and i saw two people put
their arms around each other
i thought wow that's interesting but
what i said was i want the company to
reflect our real personalities who we
are what we want to do in life the
things that we're passionate about i
want it to just
pour through in everything that we do
and so we moved away from really boring
security software to something that we
were going to be passionate about
and the phrase that i used was we need
to ask ourselves what would we do
and love every day even if we're failing
because
the struggle is guaranteed the success
is not so for three very different
reasons we end up
launching quest nutrition but it was
born out of that misery it was born out
of
i'm never going to be this unhappy again
i want to feel alive
i know about myself i like community i
like connection i like seeing people
being able to help them i want to add
value i don't want to steer by money
look money's important and don't get me
wrong i want to make even more money in
my life
but there's a certain way that i want to
make it i want to make it by creating
things that people value tremendously
and they would rather have than the
money
i don't do hard sales tactics it just
doesn't make me feel good
so there are ways to generate tremendous
wealth in your life that are all
value-add humanity plus and so
that was the driver now part of the
reason that we ended up being so
successful is
while that's now and vogue at the time
everyone thought we were crazy
we come out talking about authenticity
about passion about community
that there wasn't social media as a
phrase didn't exist
but using today's language we're going
to do all of this socially all of our
marketing is going to be social media
we i'm going to use storytelling i'm
going to go back to stories i'm going to
tell people what it means
to support this company to buy this
product what does it say about them who
are they who are we
and then we're going to step forward as
people as individuals we want people to
know who we are
and we're going to put employees first
so it's employees first
then customer and when you do that and
you're building this like tight
ecosystem of people that you believe in
that believe in you
it's just man it's really extraordinary
and now it's a movement but we were
early
just early enough using social media
just early enough
that we just broke and it just went
crazy when you've got winners on your
team
the last thing you want to do is let
like any sort of pettiness get in the
way so we would actually have
conversations about our emotions like
hey when you did that it made me feel
this way really yeah yeah yeah all of
you yeah
yeah did you guys have a coat together
like did you guys have something
like a coat of honor did you have any
kind of not stated or anything like that
but yeah
it was like look we're gonna be die hard
we're going to do anything within our
code of ethics to make this company
successful we're going to also support
each other we're going to look for ways
to help each other shine
we're not going to like backstab like we
were so cognizant
that internecine battles are ultimately
the thing to bring you down
we were very cognizant that pairing up
is a problem so if two of us are really
close
because i mean we were together for 14
years so over that time it's like
inevitably up one time you're feeling
close to one person the other you're
feeling closer to the other person
so it's like you you have to talk openly
and say things like
hey remember coupling is one of the most
dangerous things that we could face in a
triumvirate so we have to be very
careful not to let that happen
making sure that we're talking about
emotions that if something upset you
that you put it out on the table that
you talk about it
and that we make sure that we're very
open and honest and direct
and i'll say that it became hard for
other people
because we were so direct with each
other and so comfortable in that
directness that if you then were
direct like that with somebody else in a
way that you loved because it was so
clear people felt like you were being
like cold or whatever like
just to give you an idea if we wanted
one of the other people to come to us
efficiency was one of our highest values
so you would just get a text that would
say come and it wasn't
hey can you please come to the office
whatever it was you would just get a
text come
and so whoever sent it that meant go to
their office but you would send the same
text like you didn't think about it but
we had that kind of just
ultra direct everything is efficient
once you understand
that in your life you're
either going to be chasing money or
you're going to be chasing fulfillment
and nary the twain shall meet
and recall when you when you chase
fulfillment you may also build a
massive company i'm gonna do
both i i always say and i'm making up
the rules that i'm gonna be the best
entrepreneur because i'm gonna make the
most money
and have the most impact on other
entrepreneurs
yeah no i love that and i think there's
a third part to that that i clearly see
in your company and is literally
the the cornerstone of impact theory and
that is people over
everything it's the connection that each
person feels the trust
from that will be able to do something
extraordinary because when you believe
in people
your guard is down you're emotionally
invested yeah where does entitlement
fall into it because i will tell you one
of the flaws
in me running vayner over the last seven
years and we've gotten a lot better in
the last two years and we're well on our
way
but i definitely created a macro culture
of entitlement
because i had people over everything and
i took everything on my head
yeah so it's two things one it is
absolute high standards so you have to
have standards explain what they are and
know what people have to do
in order to be in that sort of safety
circle and then the
other is your boy ray dalio looking at
your girl lindsay down there
so ray and his whole notion of say truth
here truth
that that is the one time i would say
when i read that book it changed me
forever as an entrepreneur
because it was a failure of my
imagination to believe that you could
hold
thousands of people in an organization
to and this is how he says it and this
is so true
even if you have a criticism that you're
prepared to take to the grave that you
don't even say to your significant other
you still have an
obligation to voice that that's super
fascinating
because that is absolutely not a
strength of mine radical candor is
something i continue
to evolve into it just doesn't you know
i'm really great when comes natural
to me uh like i
i just don't like money and i will use
money
and i will and i'm really emotionally
strong i will help the other people
like it's really funny radical candor
and that even to that level is absurd
no question is a strength of his and
others that i haven't had and
now i've gotten dramatic my brother had
aj's was
much better at it naturally i've gotten
a lot lot better and it's been a
strength of mine
look today we fired somebody that it
i've been thinking about it for nine
days super not pumped i feel like
right now
but if i don't do it the whole
thing crumbles yeah it gets toxic for
other people so people over everything
doesn't mean
keeping people around even though you've
manipulated your own self in believing
they're better off with you than not
with you
true but here's part of why i say people
over everything and it doesn't mean that
i'm just going to let you get away with
murder it's like you've got the
collective and for the collective to
have trust and all of that 100 then they
have to know that if somebody isn't
living up to it they're not carrying
their end of the bargain that they're
going to be like oh like simple ass
but that it's going to be done openly
and respectfully and that you're going
to help them transition out gracefully
is it really possible is it really
possible to go from being a broke kid
to sitting in your beautiful home and
here in mulholland drive in beverly
hills
for most really make it happen for most
people it's not
and that's not the answer you're
expecting and i hope each and every
person out there
is like you oh they will after all
that
you're gonna tell me like i can't do it
yeah
you're goddamn right and why am i
telling you that what did i say was the
greatest gift anyone could
give you doubt now i want you to put
that on your shoulder
let that chip piss you off let it focus
your energies so you'll go out and do
something and here's the reason here's
why this is the safest bet in the world
because i know most people are not
prepared to suffer
they're not prepared to grind it out
they're not prepared to be bored
and that's the thing that a lot of
people don't realize that is coming for
you
you see that wall right there i painted
that you see that wall right there
i painted that you see the wall there i
painted that
did it suck yes and did i paint it in
the middle of the night after getting no
sleep
yes but do you have to grind that
out and do more could i have said what
am i do
i'm rich why am i painting this is
because i had a guest showing
up and if i didn't paint it it wasn't
going to get painted
even though it should have been painted
with a spray painter and been done in
five minutes
my wife and i went in with little
brushes and painted that
stick by stick we didn't complain about
it
we just did it because that's what it
means to have a goal and say it's all my
fault and i'm going to make this happen
now for those of you that that resonates
with for those of you that right now
just had a moment of awakening and
realize holy i'm gonna kick myself
in the ass
i'm gonna go do something things are
either i'm getting the result that i
want or i'm not getting the result that
i want
go do it man blow me away show me that
you're the one show me that you're the
one that cuts through the clutter that
really
puts in the effort and makes it happen
and holds yourself to a result
people do not judge you by their by your
intentions they judge you by your
results
get it done prove me wrong
thank you for watching this episode
which again was brought to you by
impact theory's very own business
decision making workshop
if you guys are ready to take your
business to the next level by investing
in yourself and learning
the first principles of business then i
want you to take action right now
and go to decision dot impact theory
dot com to apply i promise you i am
giving you
every piece of information that you will
need to overcome
any obstacle that your company is facing
to stare down
problems that will arrive a year five
years after you take the course
this is the strategies of business
decision making
that every successful entrepreneur has
to learn to deploy against their company
if they want to grow
all right guys i promise it will deliver
10x the value of what you pay for it and
if it doesn't i'll give you your money
back no
questions asked you know me i live in
the public eye there's nowhere for me to
hide
this is me trying to give as much value
as humanly possible
i really think this class would be
transformative and i hope you will sign
up
and i will see you in the next live
class all right guys take care and be
legendary